.. _pg-D1-Use-cases:

########################
Deliverable 1: Use-cases
########################

This page describes the standardized use-cases that were used in defining requirements and responding to the other charge questions.
They will be referred (and linked) to throughout this report.
The use-cases are separated into two categories.
The first set describes the use-cases that exemplify functionalities required to perform on-the-fly analyses and alert users.
The second set is specific to image display capabilities.

.. _pgD1 Use-cases for On-the-fly Analysis and Reporting:

Use-cases for On-the-fly Analysis and Reporting
===============================================

The use-cases for on-the-fly reporting are reported in the following subsections.
They are designed to be as orthogonal as possible but overlap does exist.
Increased detail is given where a unique requirement is going to result from the use-case.
General capabilities and existing functionality is given significantly less attention.


.. _pgD1 Mount Jitter Measurement and Reporting:

Mount Jitter Measurement and Reporting
--------------------------------------

The Mount Jitter use-case demonstrates the calculation of mount data during an exposure and the production of a PSF for a quick data quality assessment if certain conditions are met (e.g. the mount shows an unacceptable amount of motion).
Depending upon those results, a special display is updated and the observer gets alerted such that they can evaluate the issue and possibly change observing strategies.
For the moment, the `Jitter use-case is hosted on confluence <https://confluence.lsstcorp.org/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=LSSTCOM&title=Mount+Jitter+Use-Case>`_.



Afternoon Calibration Generation
--------------------------------

Calibrations are meant to be run every afternoon via the scriptQueue.
The primary items addresed by this use-case are usage of the OCPS but also includes aspects captured in the section regarding `Use-cases for Image Display Capabilities`_
For the moment, the `Afternoon Calibration Generation use-case is hosted on confluence <https://confluence.lsstcorp.org/display/LSSTCOM/Use+Cases+for+Calibration+Generation>`_.

.. _pgD1 Automated Fault Report Use-Case:

Automated Fault Report Use-Case
--------------------------------

This use-case is to emphasize that there will be a demand for running analyses and generating artifacts that are not associated with images.
It also emphasizes the need to generate reports in a way that they can be easily linked/distributed.
For the moment, the `Automated Fault Report Use-Case use-case is hosted on confluence <https://confluence.lsstcorp.org/display/LSSTCOM/Automated+Fault+Report+Use-Case>`_.


Active Optics System (AOS)
--------------------------

The AOS use-case captures many of the types of plots/figures that will need to be presented.
It also captures some key functionalities that are required by the image display system.
Much of this use-case was based on use-cases from the DECam Active Optics System.
For the moment, the `Active Optics System Use-Case use-case is hosted on confluence <https://confluence.lsstcorp.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=156512863>`_.



Observer Data Summary Feedback
------------------------------

Significant input was provided regarding the display of feedback to the observer, many of which were from the Scheduler.
This was intentionally left for a later date and any specific architectural requirements that came out of this have been incorporated into the other use-cases.
It appears that by implementing the on-the-fly analysis recommendations and using these results as part of a Bokeh app then all of the items in these use-cases can be implemented.


Use-cases for Image Display Capabilities
========================================

A formalized use-case was not developed in the same way as the others for Image Display Capability.
However, repeatedly used examples for discussion and requirement generation are as follows:

#. Displays used to stretch/scale to find a target, then calculating and applying an offset.
   This includes rotating the image to have north up, applying coordinate overlays, measuring distances etc.
#. The viewing of calibration frames to look at flats etc.
#. The viewing of on-sky images and adjusting as required to view low-surface brightness objects.
   This includes applying neccesary filters, stretches etc.